Welcome back in in this lesson we're going to be looking at objects and we saw earlier that an array
is actually an object but it was a special type of object.
And we also saw earlier that there's five primitive data types and Javascript and everything else is
an object.
So this is all about objects and objects also give us much like arrays the ability to hold multiple
different pieces of data within one variable.
So here we still have an error array.
And I've left this in here just to give you a comparison to what the difference between an array and
object is.
So I set up an object we set up within our familiar format where we do V-A are so variable object because
we've again using that same variable structure.
And then on the right hand side is where we've got our different data type.
So we know that javascript uses objects and almost everything in javascript is an object.
So what exactly is an object.
And if you look around in the real world outside of the computer we see that we've got a number of items
that are sitting around.
And these are all objects they've got a bunch of properties.
So if we take for instance our car we know that a car has multiple properties and objects are defined
with these curly brackets.
So let's list some of the properties that we know about a car.
So we know that a car will have a color and we can specify the color so maybe for instance this one
is red.
It would also have a make.
So maybe this one is a Ford.
We also have wheels so maybe it's got six wheels.
Not sure what type of car and this is that's got six wheels.
Well let's say for instance six wheels and we can see that we've got a number of associations to this
car so we've got a color a make wheels and maybe or maybe better than wheels has doors.
Clearly that's more of a common one sort of can at six doors or five doors or maybe five doors makes
more sense.
And then let's add one more value to it so you know we've got a make and we've got also a model for
most cars.
So maybe this is a Mustang because it's a Ford and Ford Mustangs.
So it's a red mustang with five doors.
And these are the properties that are available in this particular project.
So let's log out this object and see what it looks like within the console.
So go back here refreshed and we see that we've got all of these values now are associated to the object
variable.
The OPG variable and of course this variable you can call whatever you want as long as it just makes
sense within the context of the content that you're outputting.
So we see that the structure for objects is very similar to what we found within arrays.
But instead of having indexes within the items we have what's called as paired values.
So we have a name of the value and then we have the value of it.
So a name separated by a colon and then each one of the properties is then separated by a comma.
So much like what we did within the arrays.
But it gives us more flexibility and actually makes our content more humanly readable whereas with arrays
we have to rely on the indices.
This time we've got actual words for the name that we can refer to and pull back those values.
So a whole lot more readable and easier to work with.
So this is one way to define objects.
And just like arrays there is an alternative to defined objects which you might see as well but it's
not as common.
And really the literal way to define array is to define objects is the best way to go.
But just in case you do encounter the constructor of the object constructor method I'll show you how
to do that.
Well let's just call this one object one OPG one and this time just like the arrays we have to declare
we're creating a new object.
So this is how we specify that new object.
And now we can console log that object and then we don't have any contents in there yet.
So we can console log though and that's perfectly valid.
But really the big difference here is that formatting it this way.
So you can still add items into that object so much like what we've added in here.
We can construct and we can add additional values in here so g 1 and let's let's do the same thing that
we did up there.
So do color and equal it to red and then so on and so on.
So we could have all of those values in a similar format.
So B.J. one in your next list to make it forward so that we have some consistency.
Let's refresh and we can see that we can build at that object within that same format but using it this
way within that constructor method it doesn't perform as well in browsers.
It's a lot more difficult to read and it's just there's more typing than the literal method.
It's a literal method is the way to go and it's the most commonly used format for setting up options
and Javascript
so the next lesson I'm going to show you how to retrieve data.
So what I want you to do before we start the next lesson.
Open up your editor creates an object take a look around the room that you're in and actually do a description
of one of the items that you see within the room and create an object out of that and put that information
into the con..
So the next lesson I'll show you how you can retrieve that information and we can retrieve specific
pieces specific values that are contained within our object.
I'll show you how to do that.
Coming up.